# Concrete Crack Identification Using a UAV Incorporating Image Processing


- Model and Results
To initiate the modelling stage, first we found a dataset with 40,000 images from Mendeley [12]. Then, we developed a model that consists of two stages. In the first one, we determine if there is a crack present in the image.  In the second step, we eliminate the images without a crack and for the remaining ones we try to estimate the width of the crack and categorize it as dangerous or not. 

- Classification of Crack/No Crack
In order to start this analysis, the data was split into two categories as images with and without a crack. Then, 8,000 images were sorted into a training set and 2,000 images sorted into the test set, achieving a 80-20 split for a total of 10,000 images used. Both sets are generated in a way that in each set exactly half of the images had a crack, so neither the training nor test set data were biased. Only 10,000 images were used to decrease time for the analysis. The images were resized to 64x64 and converted to grayscale in order to be processed. For each image, pixel brightness was extracted (a decimal number between 0 and 1) for all 4,096 pixels and stored in an array. The pixel brightness for each images’ 4,096 pixels are the independent features that were loaded into the test and train sets. Whether the image had a crack or not was coded as the dependent variable, which was a 0 or 1 value.  The logistic regression model was trained and then tested, and an accuracy score of 88% was achieved. 
Hyperparameter tuning was conducted to determine the optimal C value (C=1/λ, where λ represents the complexity of the model) in an effort to improve the model. The optimal value was found to be 0.1, and the models accuracy improved to 89%. Of the 217 images that were incorrectly predicted, 179 were predicted to not have a crack when in reality they had. This seemed to occur because while a crack was very present to the human eye, there was no apparent section that would indicate a crack is present that would indicate a crack is present). 

- Determining the Width of a Crack
As the second step of the model, the image was further processed in order to analyse the crack properties. This stage involved thresholding, noise elimination and then conversion to binary. It should be noted that this image corresponds to a numpy array. With the array, we can then calculate how much area the crack covers by comparing the non-zero pixels that correspond to the crack, to the entire area. From the array we can also analyse the horizontal and vertical dimensions of the crack. Both are measured in terms of pixels, and the direction with lesser error gave the approximate directionality of the crack, such that the width can be determined. 
